{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deftab709{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Liberation Sans;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{ Normal;}{\s1 heading 1;}{\s2 heading 2;}{\s3 heading 3;}{\s4 heading 4;}{\s5 heading 5;}{\s6 heading 6;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\keepn\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\s4\sb120\sa120\cf1\lang1033\b\i\f0\fs32 Embedded Microcontrollers for Beginners \endash  Syllabus\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\kerning1\i0\f1\fs24 DRAFT 1a\b0\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Date: 4 Nov 2019\par
\par
\pard\keepn\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\s5\sb120\sa60\kerning0\ul\b\f0\fs28 Course Objective\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\kerning1\ulnone\b0\f1\fs24 Learn how & when to use embedded microcontrollers by studying & experimenting with the TI MSP430 Development Kit.  By the end of the course, a conscientious student should be able to apply the basic capabilities of the MSP430 microcontroller to simple IOT devices and robots and to control devices like solar/battery systems, home automation, remote meters and sensors, and smartphone accessories.\par
\par
\pard\keepn\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\s5\sb120\sa60\kerning0\ul\b\f0\fs28 Instructor\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\kerning1\ulnone\b0\f1\fs24 David Billsbrough has worked on electronic equipment in the military & in industry, has worked in network administration, and has worked on code.  David is interested in creating IOT devices and wants to help others with similar interests to learn & create.\par
\par
\tab FamiLAB Slack handle:  kc4zvw  (preferred contact method)\par
\tab FamiLAB Slack channel:  #msp-430\par
\tab Website:  \cf0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.orlando220.org"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2 http://www.orlando220.org}}}\cf1\f1\fs24\par
\tab Amateur radio website:  \cf0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.kc4zvw.us"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2 http://www.kc4zvw.us}}}\cf1\f1\fs24\par
\par
\pard\keepn\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\s5\sb120\sa60\kerning0\ul\b\f0\fs28 Course Materials\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\kerning1\ulnone\b0\f1\fs24\u9632?  TI MSP430FR6989 LaunchPad Development Kit  (required, ~$17)\par
\tab\cf0\lang255{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ti.com/tool/MSP-EXP430FR6989"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2 http://www.ti.com/tool/MSP-EXP430FR6989}}}\cf1\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\tab Available through TI website (above) and the usual suppliers (e.g., DigiKey).\par
\u9632?  TI Code Composer Studio IDE (CCSTUDIO-MSP)  (required, free)\par
\tab\cf0\lang255{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ti.com/tool/CCSTUDIO-MSP"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2 http://www.ti.com/tool/CCSTUDIO-MSP}}}\cf1\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\tab Available through TI website if you register.\par
\u9632?  Electronics components for circuits  (required, ~$15)\par
\tab See the list below.\par
\u9632?  Multimeter (required, $20 and up)\par
\tab A very simple DMM is sufficient.\par
\u9632?  Laptop  (required, obviously)\par
\u9632?  Calculator (phone app/website) to do number base conversion between Decimal,\par
\tab Hexadecimal and Binary number systems.  (highly recommended)\par
\u9632?  Book \ldblquote MSP430 Microcontroller Basics\rdblquote  (ISBN 978-0-7506-8276-3)  (not required)\par
\u9632?  Udemy course \ldblquote Microcontrollers and the C Programming Language (MSP430)\rdblquote   (not required) \tab\cf0\lang255{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.udemy.com/course/mcu_msp430/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2 https://www.udemy.com/course/mcu_msp430/}}}\cf1\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\tab You may want to enroll if it\rquote s under $15 (prices fluctuate with time).\par
\tab\par
\pard\keepn\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\s5\sb120\sa60\kerning0\ul\b\f0\fs28 Prerequisites\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\kerning1\ulnone\b0\f1\fs24 High-school-level math skills.\par
Basic programming skills (ideally C).\par
Basic electronics (very basic).\par
\tab Some refresher materials on these topics will be covered in class.  Some.\par
\par
\pard\keepn\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\s5\sb120\sa60\kerning0\ul\b\f0\fs28 Policies\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\kerning1\ulnone\b0\f1\fs24 Members & non-members are welcome.\par
FamiLAB policies apply (as always):  \cf0\lang255{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://familab.org/wiki/Lab_Policies"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2 https://familab.org/wiki/Lab_Policies}}}\cf1\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\tab Note:  Non-members must sign the Safety Waiver.\par
Class attendance is not recorded.  (You & everyone else will learn better if you\rquote re there, though.)\par
No grades.  No certificate.\par
\par
\pard\keepn\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\s5\sb120\sa60\kerning0\ul\b\f0\fs28 Course Plan and Schedule\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\kerning1\ulnone\b0\f1\fs24 The plan & schedule are flexible and subject to the instructor\rquote s discretion.\par
Always check the Calendar on the FamiLAB website ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://familab.org/" }}{\fldrslt{\cf3\lang255\ul http://familab.org}}}\cf1\lang1033\ulnone\f1\fs24 ).\par
\pard\keepn\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\s6\sb60\sa60\kerning0\b\i\f2\fs19 Schedule\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\kerning1\b0\i0\f1\fs24 Meet for a 2 to 3 hour class session on two Friday evenings each month and meet for a class-plus-lab session for 3 to 5 hours on one weekend each month.  The course will go about three months.  Most sessions will be a mix of lecture, writing programs, making circuits, and running them.\par
\pard\keepn\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\s6\sb60\sa60\kerning0\b\i\f2\fs19 Course Plan\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\kerning1\b0\i0\f1\fs24 Background (sessions 1, 2)\par
\tab Math & binary numbers (refresher).\par
\tab Computers, microcontrollers, & embedded systems.\par
\tab C programming language basics (refresher).\par
MSP430FR6989 Dev Kit Basics (sessions 2, 3)\par
\tab Intro to the board:  layout; memory; pins; peripherals; etc.\par
\tab Intro to the IDE.\par
Using Digital Circuits with the Board (sessions 3,4,5)\par
\tab Digital inputs & outputs and circuits.\par
\tab Programming the digital I/O.\par
Using Timers and the Watchdog (sessions 5, 6)\par
\tab Types of timers & their applications.\par
\tab Watchdog timer & its application.\par
\tab Using the timers.\par
Using the Board to Create Devices (sessions 6, 7, 8)\par
Software Libraries to Improve Programs (sessions 8, 9)\par
\par
\pard\keepn\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\s5\sb120\sa60\kerning0\ul\b\f0\fs28 Materials for Electronic Circuits\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\kerning1\ulnone\b0\f1\fs24 (David recommends that students pool together to place one order at class session 2 or 3.)\par
\tab Small breadboard  (required)\par
\tab Wires (single conductors with stripped ends for breadboard)  (required)\par
\tab Resistors  (required)\par
\tab LEDs.\par
\tab Piezo speaker.\par
\tab >>>>> what else?\par
\tab\cf0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.orlando220.org/files/Newark-Parts.txt"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2 http://www.orlando220.org/files/invoice-parts.txt}}}\cf1\f1\fs24\par
\par
\pard\keepn\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\s5\sb120\sa60\kerning0\ul\b\f0\fs28 References\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\kerning1\ulnone\b0\f1\fs24 Familab Slack Channel\par
\tab Slack:  familab.slack.com  (Contact a member to get an account.)\par
\tab Channel:  #msp-430\par
TI Resources\par
\tab Board:  \cf0\lang255{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ti.com/tool/MSP-EXP430FR6989"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2 http://www.ti.com/tool/MSP-EXP430FR6989}}}\cf1\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\tab IDE:  \cf0\lang255{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ti.com/tool/CCSTUDIO-MSP"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2 http://www.ti.com/tool/CCSTUDIO-MSP}}}\cf1\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\tab Quick Start Guide:  \cf0\lang255{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ti.com/lit/ml/slau626/slau626.pdf"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2 http://www.ti.com/lit/ml/slau626/slau626.pdf}}}\cf1\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\tab Other:  program examples; circuit examples; applications; tech info; etc.\par
Udemy Course:  \cf0\lang255{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.udemy.com/course/mcu_msp430/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2 https://www.udemy.com/course/mcu_msp430/}}}\cf1\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
David\rquote s Website:  \cf0\lang255{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://orlando220.org/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2 http://orlando220.org/}}}\cf1\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\tab Embedded Microcontroller Books section.\par
\tab MSP-430 Family section.\par
YouTube channel \endash  Quantum Leaps LLC\par
\tab Embedded Programming course.\par
\par
}
 
